Demographic Questions:

1. Age - 23 years
2. Home Country - India
3. Native Language - Kannada (a south indian regional language). Other languages that I speak fluently are: Hindi and English.
4. Religion - Hindu
5. Education - Bachelor of Engineering in computer science and engineering (BE-CSE). Working towards my Master's degree in computer science.
6. Employment - Graduate research assistant working for the ARL,UAH. Graduate Teaching assistant for CS-347 Intro to Video Game design and programming.


Interview questions:

Q1. Who else in your family lives or travels abroad? Are you the first member of your family to live in another country?
Answer: Technically I was the first person in my family to travel abroad. But, soon after I did, my sister unexpectedly had to travel here for work and she currently lives in the USA.

Q2: How does the education system in your home country compare or differ to the one here? What was your motivation for attending school at UAH?
Answer: There are a lot of differences if I compare the education system in India and the one here. India's literacy rate is below the world's average literacy rate.
Though India has a lot of good schools and colleges, they are not uniformly spread across the country due to difference in governance system of the states. It is very apparent that
few states have a lot of schools and colleges while others have hardly few which cannot accomodate the number of students from that state wanting to go to a college. However, schools
are quite evenly spread and one can get access to elementary school education in any corner of the country quite easily. These are the schools that are run by the government providing
free education.  But as you go to higher grades, the schools are unevenly distributed geographically. This was about basic education scenario.

Speaking of the education "system", i.e., the way things are taught in school. I am emphasising on this because there is not much difference in the matter that is taught in India and 
here. Infact, our education system pushes us to learn quite more things in a certain grade compared to here. For example, something which is studied in 10th grade here may be
introduced in 8th grade in a standard education system in India. Apart from this, there is not much difference in what we learn. But since India's population density is nearly 12 times
that of the USA and relatively lesser number of schools, you can find a lot of students in a single class. I come from a small town in south India. When I was in school, there were 
around 80 students in my class and we had 3 sections of 80 each in the same grade. Most of the times all we study is theory because teaching things practically for so many students 
costs a lot. What I mean from this is be it a science experiment, a math model or anything that can be better understood practically is learnt only theoretically. This is what something
I don't like.  Also one more thing what I don't like but inevitable is students are scaled for knowledge purely based on a final exam grade that is given at the end of every academic 
year and grades are not confidential, it is put on the internet or on a notice board of the school or college. Everybody can see everybody's grades. Also admission to further education
be it any discipline is given purely based on these exam grades and nothing else. (May be due to the population, there is no easy way to try measuring a student's knowledge in a 
better way and since this consumes less time and requires less man-power, it is like this). So, students are forced to learn and memorise all they can and do the final exam well so that they 
get admitted to good colleges. Nobody tries checking the knowledge of a student but only his/her capacity to memorise things at a certain point of time and that's it. Coming to higher
education, the entry to a university/college is by merit only for certain amount of seats (differs from state to state because of different state laws), other seats are purely given on
management's choice and usually given for people who pay more money. The more money you have, the more money you fund to the college, it is more likely a college or university 
would accept you though you have grades below average. (There are atleast 10 times more private colleges in India than govt. funded ones and this is how they get their funding. 
So logically fair enough.)  There are hardly universities that admits all students purely based on merit. Also since a large population of India is having an average income per household
and living a below average standard of living life, everybody motivates their children to study hard, get admitted on a merit basis and save money, then find a high paying job and 
improve their standard of living. Nobody speaks about creative ideas, creating something, exploring new feilds. To sum it up, children are not raised in a way to explore their 
strengths and weaknesses and to learn things they enjoy but in a world of cut-throat competition that is inevitable. Survival of the fittest becomes a neccessity. 
This was in my time when I was in school and entered college and I have been through all this since I come from an economically just stable family commonly called the "middle class". 
Also pretty much is the story of every person who was brought through this situation.

The reason for me to attend UAH or a school here was because of the education system here I believe is better than in India. Teaching things practically, in the right way, 
research opprtunities, freedom of creativity. Ultimately the whole idea of research according to me is solely for the betterment of the mankind and I want to be a part of something 
like that. I admire the beauty of technology and its advancements and I want to be a part of such a thing.

Q3: How do you keep in contact with friends and family? What would you judge the impact of technology to be on those relationships and correspondence?
Answer: Basically I use skype and is the best way to keep in touch with family and friends. Voice calls also are comfortable. Family and friends are a source of emotional support
and having them in touch with you always helps a lot. Technology like I said is a beauty which lets me do that easily.

Q4: What are your plans after graduation? Do you intend to continue living and working in Huntsville, or travel elsewhere/home? 
Answer: I am not sure of my plans as of yet. I am pretty much thinking of using the optional practical trainng (OPT) period that lets me gain some experience by working in the field 
of what I studied and then get back home and find a job that would do justice to my skills and knowledge.

Q5: What is your perception of American politics? How does this country's system compare or differ to the one in your home country?
Answer: I do not know much about American politics except a few names that always trend on the internet or a few blogs that I bump into. Again due to the average standard of living,
there is lot of corruption in the bureaucracy in India. Also, there are a lot of political parties: minor, major, small, big, regional, national, etc. All I can say is, India
has a way lot of politics that has negative effects than positive compared to the one in USA. 